baobab/twinsafe/twinsafe.md, before:

# twinsafe

a personal safe data stor to keep info about the 3bot ecosystem

This is a datastor in sqlite which holds your private key info and the pub key info from other twins.
It also holds all your private config information for your varia of connections e.g. a connection to openai, ...

The config info is stored as 3Script

context

- all 3bots can reach each other using mbus
- mbus communicates over local redis or ipv4/ipv6 reachable network
- we need to know the relation between the ipv4/6/redis and the twin id
- in our local datastor we can remember name, description, ...
- we use sqlite to remember all the info
- the personal datastor also remembers our private key(s)
- we use algo/secp256k1/secp256k1.v for signing & verification per twin
- encryption is done using symmetric encryption (see )

## remarks

There are 3 type objects

- mytwin is the info I need for myself, so I can sign info and I have my private key available, 
- othertwin only has info how I can get to another twin and communicate with it.
- myconfig is 3script based info



>> TODO: create some tests

Commit message:

add example in twinsafe doc

baobab/twinsafe/twinsafe.md, after:

# twinsafe

a personal safe data stor to keep info about the 3bot ecosystem

This is a datastor in sqlite which holds your private key info and the pub key info from other twins.
It also holds all your private config information for your varia of connections e.g. a connection to openai, ...

The config info is stored as 3Script

context

- all 3bots can reach each other using mbus
- mbus communicates over local redis or ipv4/ipv6 reachable network
- we need to know the relation between the ipv4/6/redis and the twin id
- in our local datastor we can remember name, description, ...
- we use sqlite to remember all the info
- the personal datastor also remembers our private key(s)
- we use algo/secp256k1/secp256k1.v for signing & verification per twin
- encryption is done using symmetric encryption (see )

## remarks

There are 3 type objects

- mytwin is the info I need for myself, so I can sign info and I have my private key available, 
- othertwin only has info how I can get to another twin and communicate with it.
- myconfig is 3script based info



For an example on how to use check example [here](example/keysafe.v).
